# Error Handling

## The web

On the web, errors can happen in many ways. You can have errors from your
JavaScript code running in the browser and errors that happen on the server when
a request is made. The server errors are communicated through
[HTTP status codes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status).
From that article, we find the categories of HTTP status codes:

1.  [Informational responses](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status#information_responses)
    (`100` – `199`)
2.  [Successful responses](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status#successful_responses)
    (`200` – `299`)
3.  [Redirection messages](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status#redirection_messages)
    (`300` – `399`)
4.  [Client error responses](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status#client_error_responses)
    (`400` – `499`)
5.  [Server error responses](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status#server_error_responses)
    (`500` – `599`)

So, errors are communicated through HTTP status codes ranging from 400-599.
These status codes are important because the browser and search engines behave
differently based on the status code. So you do want to make sure you're
following the specification for each one.

"Client error responses" could also be termed as "expected" errors where we (the
server) know that the client did something wrong that we anticipated. For
example, maybe they requested something that does not exist (404), they don't
have access to (403), or they must first login to access (401).

"Server error responses" are errors that we did not anticipate. These are errors
that we did not handle in our code. For example, maybe we tried to access a
database that was not available (503), or it could be as simple as a runtime
error where we tried to access a property on an object that does not exist.

It should be noted that you can intentionally throw errors that result in `500`
range errors, but the point is that for those types of errors, there's nothing
the user can do to avoid the error. Those errors are the server's
responsibility.

You will sometimes run into error pages in your browser, but there's not a
standard way to display errors in the browser. Applications need to handle these
errors themselves.

<callout-info class="aside">
	When making an HTTP request with `fetch`, if the response comes back with an
	error status code (400-599), the promise is (correctly) not rejected. Even
	though there was an "error," the request was still successful. The response
	object will have an `ok` property you can use to check if the response was
	successful or not.
</callout-info>

## In Remix

Remix has a nice way to handle these kinds of errors and customize the UI for
them. It's called "Error Boundaries" which is a borrowed concept from React, but
has more capabilities (for example, it handles errors that occur during the
server render).

Each route module can export a component called `ErrorBoundary` and that
component can access the error it's handling via
[the `useRouteError()` hook](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/hooks/use-route-error).

```tsx filename=app/routes/errors-oh-no.tsx
import { useRouteError } from 'remix'

export function ErrorBoundary() {
	const error = useRouteError()
	console.error(error)

	return (
		<div>
			<h1>Oh no!</h1>
			<p>Something bad happened! Sorry!</p>
		</div>
	)
}
```

Thanks to the nested layout routing of Remix, this error boundary mechanism
allows fairly fine-grained control over where errors appear in the UI and how
they are displayed. It allows much of the application to still be functional if
only a part of the nested layout is affected.

Additionally, if a route module does not export an ErrorBoundary, then Remix
will find its nearest ancestor that does and render that one in place of that
ancestor. We call this "error bubbling".

Remix also has a special ability for you to throw `Response` objects in your
`loader`s and `action`s which allows you to specify a status code for the error
that ends up being sent to the browser. We'll get to that later in the exercise.
